---
layout: post
author: "Nataland"
title:  "Additional cases for practice"
date:   2018-08-01 17:37:01 -0500
categories: notes
---
# Problems

1. After completing his BU231 exam, John takes a trip to Vancouver to see his friend Eduardo who had offered to store his car for him for the winter months. John had agreed to let Eduardo use the car to run local errands in exchange for storing the car while John was in school. On his arrival, Eduardo reveals that someone had broken into his garage and stolen John’s car the night before.

	a)	Identify the type[s] of bailment which have occurred in the above situation.

	b)	Who has the burden of proof? What are possible claims can John make? What defences does Eduardo have available to him?

	c)	Would this change if Eduardo could not drive the car while looking after it?

	d)	While in Vancouver seeking a claim against Eduardo, John checks into a Holiday Inn. He leaves his hotel room door open as he runs downstairs to grab a coffee from Tim Horton’s. When he returns, he discovers that his laptop is missing and presumably stolen. Does John have a claim against the hotel? What are the available defences available to the Holiday Inn?

2. Michael, a baker and recent Laurier MBA graduate, owns a catering company called Yummy Baked Goods Co. Lisa, a senior executive at a major telecommunications company had met Michael while completing her own MBA from Laurier, had ordered 100 undressed chocolate cakes to a very important business function that is required to pass a business deal valued at $1,000,000. Two days before the event Michael’s kitchen burns down and he is unable to deliver his 100 undressed chocolate cakes. He quickly calls Lisa and informs her of the situation and tells her that he had contacted his friend Sally, another caterer in town, who is already working on the order and has agreed to provide the same cakes for the agreed rates. Lisa refuses and after the business deal valued at $1,000,000 falls through, the telecommunications company sues Michael for the cost of the cakes on top of damages resulting from the lost contract.

	a)	What defences can Michael provide in this action?

	b)	Would the situation be any different if Michael was a world-renowned chef and Sally is in her first year of culinary school?

3. Tim Lau is the Chief Financial Officer of a well known financial company named Alpha Group. On a business trip to a local Canadian city, he runs into an old friend, Ramon Gonzalez, who is the CEO of Zappa Corporation. After a large dinner and a few drinks, Ramon states that Zappa Corp. is in need of cash for a proposed business plan, at which point Tim offers that Alpha Group will lend the required capital to Zappa Corp to finance their plan. Ramon states that the proposed business plan would only be available for a limited time, afterwards the market will be saturated. Tim however, is not a very good CFO, and is unaware that his own company is struggling with cash flow issues. Tim attempted to contact other members of Alpha Group’s management team, but they were also on vacation at the time. Tim also cannot contact any other decision makers within Alpha Group’s corporate structure.  Alpha Group promptly defaults on the loan due to a lack of available funds, which causes Zappa Corp to lose their opportunity for the proposed business plan. Zappa Corp then sues Alpha Group for breach of contract.

	a)	Should Alpha Group be held to their contract? Is there any recourse for Zappa Corp. in this situation?

	b)	Does Tim Lau have any liability in this situation? If so, what would be his defense?

	c)  What if Tim Lau did not work for the company? Would he have any liability for the contract?

# Solutions

## Question 1 Answer:

a)	Bailment for value or bailment for the benefit of both parties: while there was no monetary exchange, the use of the car was a benefit which Eduardo was afforded in exchange for the safe keeping of John’s car. Thus, the standard of car for the car is higher than a gratuitous bailment. The standard of care might them be similar to that of a car storage company as although Eduardo is not being paid, he is receiving something in return for storing the car.

b)	The burden of proof is on the bailee (Eduardo) as with bailments, there is a reverse onus. Otherwise, this would make it much too difficult for the bailor to prove negligence has occurred. Instead, the burden is on the bailee to prove that they were not negligent and that they took reasonable efforts in accordance with the appropriate standard of care.

c)	Essentially no, however since in this case the bailment will be gratuitous for the benefit of the bailor (John is able to store his car without offering any value towards Eduardo) and thus the standard of care is lowered. Then the standard of car would be lower then that of a car storage company and instead might only include gross negligence (which could include, leaving the garage door open with the keys in the car, etc.)

d)	John would find it difficult to win a claim against the hotel as since he had at least in part, control over his laptop while occupying the room. Furthermore, the hotel could avoid liability if it can show that the disappearance was due to John’s carelessness (a surveillance video of the hallway showing John leaving his door open and his laptop unattended for example... in the context of the exam, you will not have to prove this, just assume that the defence is provable  in other words, don’t worry about providing evidence)

## Question 2 Answer:

a)	
- **Discharge by frustration**: Michael could have argued that he had already been discharged from the contract due to frustration as when his kitchen had burned down, there was no way for him to fulfill his end of the contract.
- **Discharge by tender of performance**: Additionally, Michael had offered an alternative for Lisa which she had refused. In this case, the 100 undressed chocolate cakes are of a basic generic nature that would make Sally’s cakes vertically identical to Johns and therefore, John had tendered performance, which Lisa refused, thus Michael was discharged from the contract for tender of performance.

b)	Yes, in this case, due to his expertise, the cakes made by Michael could be perceivably substantially different from that of Sally’s and therefore, Lisa and the telecommunications company would have a much better claim to sue under breach of contract.

## Question 3 Answer:

a)	Tim Lau, being the chief financial officer of Alpha Group, is an agent of the company, who would have the authority to contract on behalf of Alpha Group. Being that he had the apparent authority to make the contract, his agency status and powers to create the contract are valid. Even though he may have gone beyond his powers as an agent, Alpha group is estopped from denying that he is their agent. He has therefore created a legal contract which Alpha Group is forced to honour. Alpha Group should be held to the contract that Tim created.
There is recourse for Zappa Corp in this situation as Alpha Group has not delivered on their promises in a fully functional contract. Zappa Corp. can take Alpha Group to court to force them to supply the loan, or they can sue for the full amount that they would have made from the proposed business plan.

b)	Tim Lau does not have any liability to Zappa Corp in this situation, however it is possible that he has acted beyond the limits of his authority with Alpha Group, he may be liable to compensate them for any damages occurred as a result of the lawsuit. 
Tim’s defense would be that, being a director of the company, he had the authority to engage in such a contract, and that he did not exceed his powers as an agent.

c)	If Tim did not work for the company, he would likely not have had the authority to enter into the contract on behalf of Alpha Group, without their ratification of the contract. Without the legal ability to enter into a contract, Tim could be liable for “breach of warranty of authority,” at which point Tim may be sued by Zappa Corp. for the losses incurred by the breach.
