---
layout: post
author: "Natalie"
title:  "How to crochet a cat paw for beginners"
date:   2020-01-09 17:51:01 -0500
categories: notes
tags: crochet
cover: '../assets/cat_paw.png'
---

This adorable cat paw is purrrfect as a keychain or bag charm.

### Materials

#### Yarn:

- 1 skein of white (or black, or any colour you want the base of the paw to be) worsted weight yarn. I used [White Vanna's Choice Yarn (4 - Medium) by Lion Brand](https://www.lionbrand.com/products/vannas-choice-yarn?variant=32420953096285).
- 1 skein of pink (or any colour you want the pads to be) worsted weight yarn. I used [Pink Vanna's Choice Yarn (4 - Medium) by Lion Brand](https://www.lionbrand.com/products/vannas-choice-yarn?variant=32420953129053).

#### Tools:

- 4.5mm crochet hook
- Scissors
- Yarn needle
- Stitch marker (optional)
- Sewing pins (optional)

### Basic techniques

| Basic stitch abbreviations in US terminology |                     |
| -------------------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| Sc                                           | single crochet      |
| Hdc                                          | half double crochet |
| Dc                                           | double crochet      |
| Inc                                          | increase            |
| Sl                                           | slip stitch         |

- [Magic ring](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CMPPAfXez8Q&feature=youtu.be&ab_channel=HopefulHoney)
- [Running stitch marker](https://www.littleowlshut.com/single-post/2015/12/01/How-to-use-running-stitch-marker)
- Additional terminology:
  - (Brackets) at the end of each row indicate how many stitches there are in that row
  - Stitches in [square brackets] go into the same stitch
  - Stitches in \*asterisks\* are repeated (for example, 3 \*sc, inc\* means "sc, inc, sc, inc, sc, inc")

### Base (make two)

Use white yarn.

- 1st round: 6 sc in magic ring (6 stitches)

- 2nd round: 6 inc (12 stitches)

- 3rd round: 6 \*sc, inc\* (18 stitches)

- 4th round: 6 *sc, sc, inc\* (24 stitches)

- 5th round: 6 \*sc, sc, inc\* (30 stitches)

- 6th round: hdc, hdc, 3 \*[dc and tr into same stitch], [tr and dc into same stitch], sc\*, [dc and tr into same stitch], [tr and dc into same stitch], hdc, hdc, sc all the way to the end of the round (38 stitches)

Finish off with a slip stitch. For one of the bases, leave a long tail for sewing.

### Large pads (make one)

Use pink yarn.

- 1st round: 6 sc in magic ring (6 stitches)

- 2nd round: 6 inc (12 stitches)

- 3rd round: 3 \*sl, [hdc and dc into same stitch], [dc and hdc into same stitch], sl\* (18 stitches)

Finish off with a slip stitch. Leave a long tail for sewing.

### Small pads (make four)

Use pink yarn.

- 1st round: 6 sc in magic ring (6 stitches)

- 2nd round: inc (2 stitches)

Finish off with a slip stitch. Leave a long tail for sewing.

### Assembly

- Take one base and sew on the pads. You can use the picture at the beginning of this post as a reference to where to place the pads. 
- Take the other base and sew it onto the opposite side of the first base. This base covers up any yarn tails and adds thickness to our paw.

- (Optional) Attach keychain. 

**Thanks for choosing my pattern!**